This project focuses on developing a content-based movies recommendation system for recommending movies to users according to their tastes and preferences as well as attributes like as cast, crew and director. The main aim is to evaluate the various approaches of text analysis, such as conventional TF-IDF, Word2Vec, and BERT, in creating these recommendations. Powering the ratings and movie description, the project compares the efficiency of the above models in predicting users’ preference. Accordingly, it is observed that the developed content-based recommendation system using Word2Vec is highly accurate compared to the system developed with other techniques such as TF-IDF and BERT. In this regard the above report gives a detailed analysis of the above results revealing the strengths as well as the weaknesses of each of the methods as outlined below. It also depicts the shortcomings that were encountered while working on the project, including the scarcity of data in some areas and the difficulty of capturing user preferences through text data. Finally, there are some suggestions for the future work such as developing the meta-heuristic frameworks that involve both content-based filtering and collaborative filtering methods; analyzing other possible applications of more complex NFPs in NLP for the improvement of the recommendation quality. On the whole, this project helps to develop the field of recommendation systems by presenting the comparison of the methods used, specifically, TF-IDF, Word2Vec, and BERT for the movie recommendations, thus contributing to creating more accurate and efficient personalized content recommendation systems in the future.
